.Dd December 03, 2014
.Dt ISLET 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Isolated, Scalable, and Lightweight Environment for Training
.Nd Configuration details
.Sh DESCRIPTION
An ISLET config file consists of variables that will be passed to the backend.
These settings define the operation of the training environments. An environment setting is of the form,
.Bd -literal
    NAME="value"
.Ed

There cannot be any whitespace between the variable name, the assignment operator, and the value.
Also, quoting is not required but recommended for security and whitespace issues.
ISLET has three types of configuration files that differ only with scope:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
Config        Description
------        --------------
Global        Global values inherited by all environments but optionally superseded by module and environment configuration
Module        Defines behavior of software that creates the environments but optionally superseded by environment configuration
Environment   Environment configurations are specific to a training environment
Plugin        Plugin configurations are used to launch plugins
.Ed

The default locations for ISLET are
.Bd -literal -offset indent
Location                      Description
--------                      --------------
/etc/islet                    Configuration directory
/etc/islet/modules            Module configuration directory
/etc/islet/plugins            Plugin configuration directory
/etc/islet/environments       Environment configuration directory
/opt/islet                    Installation directory
/opt/islet/bin                ISLET scripts
/opt/islet/modules            Modules directory
/opt/islet/plugins            Plugin directory
/opt/islet/lib                Library
.Ed

.Pa /etc/islet/islet.conf
is the global configuration file and must exist.
Settings in this file are inherited into all ISLET scripts. Environment configuration files only pertain
to a specific training environment and are inherited last overriding any variables of the module and global
configuration files. 

At the very least an environment configuration must contain the variable ENVIRONMENT set to the name of the training environment as used by the backend. 
For example, when using the Docker Engine backend, the value of ENVIRONMENT must match the name of an image from ``docker images''.
Variables used to configure environments are passed directly to the backend e.g.
.Xr docker-run 1
.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLE GLOBAL CONFIG FILE
.Bd -literal
#################################
# ISLET Main Configuration File #
#################################

# System Configuration
CONFIG_DIR="/etc/islet"                           # Directory to search for configuration files, used by scripts.
INSTALL_DIR="/opt/islet"                          # ISLET installation directory
LIBISLET="$INSTALL_DIR/lib/libislet"              # Common functions are stored in libislet
DB="/var/tmp/islet.db"                            # Credentials database. Must be readable by $USER

MODULE="docker"                                   # Training environment runtime system
USER="demo"                                       # Linux system user created for ssh'ing to ISLET, give account to trainees
DEBUG="no"                                        # Enable debugging info to stdout and syslog

# Security Configuration
VISIBLE="no"            # This config file is visible from config selection menu
ENABLE="no"             # Same as VISIBLE
FAILURE_COUNT=3         # Number of failed choice attempts before exiting (username, password, config)
DAYS=3                  # Container+user lifetime specified in days. Removed after # days by cron jobs
TIMEOUT="8h"            # Max runtime of environment, accepts timeout(1) arguments

# Global Container Configuration
GLOBAL_OPTIONS=""            # Apply options to all configs, line should not be present in environment configs
export PLATFORM=islet"       # Exported to container's environment. Made available using ENVS in environment configuration.
.Ed
.Sh EXAMPLE ENVIRONMENT CONFIG FILE
.Bd -literal
# Environment Configuration
ENVIRONMENT="broplatform/brolive"            # Launch containers from this Docker image, must match name in ``docker images''
DESCRIPTION="Bro 2.3.1 training image" # Brief description of image, listed in islet_shell selection menu

# Security Configuration
VISIBLE="yes"                          # This config file is visible from config selection menu
DAYS=3                                 # Container lifetime specified in days, removed after x days by cron jobs

# Container Configuration
VIRTUSER="demo"                        # Account used when container is entered (Must exist in container!)
WORKDIR="/home/$VIRTUSER"              # User begins in this directory, usually its VIRTUSER's HOME
COMMAND="bash"                         # Command to launch on container entry, typically used to get a shell
CPUSHARE=1024                          # Proportion of cpu share allocation per container (Option used to be CPU)
MEMORY="256m"                          # Amount of memory allocated to each container (Option used to be RAM)
SWAP="100m"                            # Amount of swap memory allocated to each container
HOSTNAME="bro"                         # Set hostname in container. PS1 will end up as $VIRTUSER@$HOSTNAME:~$ in shell
NETWORK="none"                         # Disable networking by default: none; Enable networking: bridge
DNS="127.0.0.1"                        # Use loopback when networking is disabled to prevent error messages from resolver
MOUNT="-v /exercises:/exercises:ro"    # Mount point(s), sep. by -v: /src:/dst:attributes, ro = readonly (avoid rw)
CAP_NET_ADMIN="yes"                    # Configure the network
CAP_NET_RAW="yes"                      # Use RAW and PACKET sockets
LOCAL_OPTIONS=""                       # Apply any other options you want passed to docker run here
export ENVIRONMENT                     # Export variables for container environment
ENVS="PLATFORM ENVIRONMENT"            # Make exported variables available in container

# Branding & Information
MOTD="Training materials are in /exercises" # Message of the day is displayed before entering container
BANNER="
================================
Welcome to the Bro configuration

    -----------
  /             \\
 |  (   (0)   )  |
 |            // |
  \\     <====// /
    -----------

A place to try out Bro.

================================
"
.Ed

.Ed
.Sh EXAMPLE PLUGIN CONFIG FILE
ISLET supports plugins which are any interpreted scripts that can be run as the ISLET user.
A plugin configuration file describes the plugin. The most important setting being the variable PLUGIN which points to the script to execute.
Plugin configuration files are placed in /etc/islet/plugins and the plugin scripts are located in /opt/islet/plugins.
.Bd -literal
ENABLE="yes"                           # Enable plugin
DESCRIPTION="Restart ISLET session"    # Description of plugin
PLUGIN="restart"                       # Filename of plugin to run
.Ed

ISLET ships with a few default plugins:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
Plugin        Description
------        --------------
restart       Restart the ISLET program without reconnecting
del_user      Deletes the current user's account from the database
del_training  Deletes a user's training environment, data contained will be lost
clear         Used to clear the screen
.Ed

.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr docker-run 1 ,
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Jon Schipp jonschipp@gmail.com, http://jonschipp.com
.Sh BUGS
